---
layout: post
author: Aditya Khuntia
title: Crunching Numbers in Wordle!
tags: maths, physics
img: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1678962855744-bf84750152c6?q=80&w=3540&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
---

Heya !

Wordle has gained immense popularity as a New York Times game, known for its diverse strategies. Some suggest starting with "CRANE," while Kamala Harris opts for "SLAINE" as her initial word. Many simply rely on luck rather than a specific strategy. So, the dilemma arises: what's the best approach for playing this engaging game?

Personally, Wordle holds a special place for me. Hinting at its origin story might offer insights into how I perceive it. The game was created by a software engineer for his girlfriend to pass time.

<h2>The Gameplay</h2>
This web-based word game challenges players to decipher a daily five-letter word within six attempts. The objective is clear: guess the word within six tries. After each attempt, the game provides feedback through a color-coded system, turning the guessing process into a nail-biting experience.

<span style = "color:green"><b>Green Tiles:</b></span> A satisfying green tile appears when a guessed letter is not only correct but also in the right position. It's a visual cue that you're on the right track.

<span style = "color:#eab676"><b>Yellow Tiles:</b></span> Yellow tiles signify that the letter is part of the solution but not in the position guessed. It adds an extra layer of challenge, prompting players to rethink their strategy.

<span style = "color:grey"><b>Gray Tiles:</b></span> The elusive gray tiles appear when a guessed letter is not in the answer at all. They serve as clues to eliminate possibilities and refine the guessing process.

<b>Multiple Instances of the Same Letter:</b> Wordle introduces an intriguing twist when handling multiple instances of the same letter in a guess. For example, if your guess contains repeating letters, such as the "o"s in "robot," the game evaluates them differently. Green or yellow coloring is assigned only if the letter also appears multiple times in the actual solution. Otherwise, the excess repeating letters are colored gray.

<h2>The Methodology </h2>

<h3>Idea 1: Maximizing Information Gain</h3>
